Throughout this course I've introduced you to various APIs and concepts related to WordPress.
Everything we've dealt with so far can be put under the word press corps API is the word press corps
API as is the general term for all the API is WordPress encompasses.
First let's understand what an API is an API is basically a set of functions variables and classes provided
by a system for you to use to interact with that system.
In our case WordPress is that system.
We've already been using some of those API is when we created our theme and plugin we didn't have to
create many of the queries ourselves or have to process a lot of the data.
A lot of it was taken care of by WordPress.
We used a list of functions provided by WordPress.
This reduced the time required to develop a theme and plugin in the resource section.
I provided a link to all WordPress API is available to us as you can see WordPress has quite a few API
lines.
I want to make one very important point about these API is all these API APIs are available in both
plugins and themes.
So let's say we use the database API you can use these functions when you're developing either a plugin
or a theme.
We won't be able to go over every API in this course but let me give you a brief overview of each one.
We've already talked about most of these API is already we've talked about the dashboard widgets API
and database API.
The file header API is one we haven't talked about yet.
This API allows you to read files in search for file header information.
If you can recall file headers are blocked comments that help WordPress to take plugins and themes.
If we were to open the main plugin file you'll find the file header we created at the very top.
These set of functions are what WordPress uses to read this information.
You're more than free to use these functions if you ever need to read file header information.
We won't be going over these but it's always nice to know that WordPress allows you to use the same
functions it uses the next API is the file system API.
This is an API we haven't gone over either.
This API is what WordPress uses to update itself traditionally to transfer files you would create a
form with an upload input and process the files after submission.
However this API goes beyond now by allowing you to securely connect with an external server and securely
transfer files between your server and the external server.
We won't be going over how this works because it's very uncommon to use this API however you're more
than free to read up on this API to learn more after you're finished with this course.
Let's keep going down the list.
We've already gone over the CTP API and metadata API.
The options API is what we'll be covering in the next few lectures as well as the settings API.
So I'll skip going over those for now.
The plugin API is the hooks actions and filters we discussed quite some time ago.
The quick tags API allows you to add buttons to the editor but we won't be using it as there are other
and better ways to accomplish this.
It's also outdated with the introduction of Gutenberg.
We've also gone over the rewrite API and short code API.
You'll notice there are two API here which are the modification API and customization API.
The customization API is specifically for the WordPress customize or the modification API is for theme
modifications settings which are saved in the database.
These two APIs are connected together but despite that WordPress addresses that the two can be separated.
You don't have to use customize your API to use the modifications API.
You can add and remove modifications wherever you want.
The next API eyes are the transients and widgets API.
We've already discussed how to use these.
The very last API is ex email RBC WordPress API.
This API is a very special case use it gives developers who make mobile apps desktop apps and other
services.
The ability to talk to your WordPress site WordPress provides developers a way to write applications
that can do many of the things that you can do when launched into wordpress via the web interface.
These tasks include publish a post edit a post delete a post upload a new file get a list of comments
edit comments we won't be going over this API as this kind of stuff goes beyond the scope of this course.
That pretty much sums up all the API is in the next few lectures will work on improving the recipe plugin
before we get into the more advanced topics.